Welcome back and and the next set of lessons were going to be building out a memory game.
So this is going to be a game where you flip tiles and you try to remember where the matching tile is
and then you go out and try to flip that same tile.
So let's set up first of all let's set up our game board.
And within this game we need a basic game area.
So it's create a div for that and I'm going to give it an ID and I'm just going to call it a wrapper.
So this is going to be where all of our main game contents are going to go.
So first thing that we need is we need a start button.
So from previous lessons we saw that a start button is a great way to initiate and start our game.
I'm going to give it a class.
So this is just because basically a div we're going to add an event listener to this and we're going
to then have the ability to click on that and actually start our game.
So there we go there is our start button.
We also every game should have a scoring mechanism so let's create another div.
Given an ID of score and we're going to keep our score in here.
Another thing that I usually include within a game is a message area.
So this is an area that if something is happening or we want the user to take some type of action then
this is where it usually I place those types of messages.
And then last but not least let's create a game board.
So this is where all of our tiles are actually going to go and set.
So let's just create all of this out.
So we've built out our basic structure and this is done the H to Mel and the rest of the game mechanics
are going to be all done using javascript.
A few other really quick things that we're going to add in.
And I don't want to focus a lot on the styling.
Just as before I want to really quickly kind of set up some styling here and not spend a whole lot of
time on styling because we want to focus this course on Javascript.
So I'm just doing some basic styling.
A center align that text.
Let's create a border radius.
So this gives that rounded edge to the button because we are creating a button.
Let's do a font size
so do one for us.
Font size that should be size not and next our lets out in some padding so buttons usually look good
with a bit of padding.
So let's try 15 pics.
And so let's try that.
Refresh the page see what it looks like.
So there I go.
Got a nice big start button.
And let's also change this color so that it's white.
And also I want to have a hover effect so we can do that with CSX where we play hover.
So pseudo class and if anyone hovers over this button let's turn it a darker red.
So let's see what we got here and maybe we do.
Crimson.
Crimson is a good color.
And so now let's refresh it again.
And whenever we hover over it so we get this kind of nice button effect.
We're also going to need
a bunch of game tiles and I want to put these game tiles I want them I got to use divs but I want them
to inline block so basically a line next to each other.
So I'm going to simply add an inline block.
Now there's quite a lot you can always do with styling and really you can make things look way way better
just by applying C Ss but I'm not going to spend a lot of time on that.
So if you want.
After we finished up with the javascript you can spend a little bit of time and update the CSA us and
make this game look a whole lot nicer.
So the first thing that we want to do is connect our start button.
So I want you to pause the video and add an event listener to the start button.
So it created a start button given an ID of start and now we want something to happen when we click
that button we want to launch a function and create the function.
The function is going to be called strt game and then this is our starting point to the game.
So go ahead paused the video and add in that event listener for the start button and I'll show you how
to do that coming up.
So this site challenge was to add an event listener to the start button.
So let's create a variable or call it espie for a start button will do document get element by ID and
they all have IDs.
So they're nice and easy to select using javascript.
So just grab that button and then over here let's create event listener so start button add a listener
and we'll add an event listener of click to it.
And if the button gets clicked then we want to start the game function.
So that's it.
So now we should be ready to have something actually happen and maybe we just want to test this.
So I got to set up a few other variables here.
So one for message and.
And this is document you get element by id and let's grab that element with the ID message.
And then one thing here let's put something into the message.
So let's just say it it's working.
So I put a message in there.
So let's try it.
So start click start and it is working.
So that's one of them important things to do when you are developing applications.
Always take a second try it out and just make sure that your code is working up to this point and then
you can continue building out the rest of the logic for the application.
So I wanted to set up a few other variables here while we have the opportunity.
So we did have one four score sledged set up.
So document get element by id and let's grab it and score.
And let's also do the game board
so do gameboard or make a upper case.
Sort of camel case.
So gameboard and this one he calls to document get element ID and we're going to grab that element with
the ID gameboard so that we have them all nicely laid out here.
Another thing that I usually like to add in when I'm setting up a game is a way to lock it out or to
complete it.
So I have one that I'm going to use I'm going to call it play it lock code and by default we're going
to set it to false
and then we can use it.
Use this one to toggle it back and forth as we enable the player to interact with some of our content.
And I'm also going to do one more as well.
I'm going to call it game play.
So this one as well we started out as false.
And then once the game play starts then we're going to take a look.
So basically you're not going to be able to hit the start button more than once.
So what we want to happen we only want that start button to be hit once.
So we'll check to see if gameplay
is not true.
So if game play or essentially saying the same thing if game play is false then the person that I want
to do is I want a certain game played to true.
So basically we're toggling it.
And so the first time you classic click the Start message
say it's working and I'm going to have game play here or maybe I'll just leave it up here at the top
and let's refresh it.
So the first time we click it we see game play us false.
Next time we click it we're seeking players for.
So let me outline the next steps that we need to take.
So once we start the game what I want to do is I want to hide the start button.
So hide start button so that the user can't keep pressing start.
And once the game play starts they don't really need the start button anymore.
So it's good and hide that.
And next let's grab within the game play so now that we've got the game play started we need to build.
We're going to build an array of tiles.
So these are all of the different tiles that we're going to have next and that we need to do is we need
to shuffle those tiles.
And we've seen this before how we can shuffle or raise.
So we're going to do that and then we need to build the board.
So those are the three items that we need to take care of.
And basically that's going to set the user up and get them ready to play the game.
So that's what we're going to be doing in the next lesson.
We're going to be setting up some more variables and building out our tiles shuffling our tiles and
outputting them visually for the game area for the gameboard area.
So it's coming up.